# Implementation

For this project, we decided to implement our decentralized application (DApp) on top of a privately run Neo Blockchain, mainly because it promised useful functionality such as Smart Contract development in a variety of high-level programming languages, promised developer support from the Neo Foundation and having around 100 DApps built on top of its platform. <br>

We decided to start our smart contract in Python. Python has an easier syntactic understanding and we had prior experience working in this language so it could help us move along faster. Setting up SDK and following the tutorial was easy, but unfortunately, it was more around Smart ANS of neo platform and not actual smart contract implementation. The Foundation pointed us to projects maintained by the open-source community such as neo-boa (for Python) and neon (C#). Unfortunately, the documentation and discoverability of the full functionality were scarce and scattered. We evaluated the neo-compiler which could have helped us test our smart contract as an online IDE but the transfer of the token was out of the box with no reference nearby. The open source projects were also in different languages than Python. Hence, we lost some valuable time to understand the platform and the VM better and the developer support was fairly limited in its support in this case. Our initial assumption to use a known language backfired and ended up learning a new language.<br>

We had to switch to TypeScript programming language which none of our group has used before. It is built on top of JavaScript but maintained by Microsoft. The online neo-one course was the only useful resource in the right direction to learn Neo DApp backend development. This proved helpful as the project also comes with a webapp to compile and build the NEP-5 smart contract with the internal dependencies and lint checks. <br>

The Neo Platform is interesting, as the dual-token system of NEO and GAS increases complexity for our project. GAS is used for smart contract deployment and interaction and NEO as a utility token within the network. As we were running our own private network for the blockchain, we were able to engineer our own token coin as “SWC” (Social Welfare Coin), without having to worry about the NEO distinction. A benefit of the Neo platform is the documentation and active open-source discussion about new developments and improvements of the platform. Neo is always evolving and has some exciting new features coming with its newest version, Neo3. However, we were not able to exploit these in this project yet.
In the end, although Neo is a well-maintained project with lots of business resources, Neo relies heavily on open-source development, which proved complicated to set up, with few full example projects for specific languages provided and a distributed documentation which proved less helpful than expected for the variety of features promoted by the Foundation.<br>

###  Token Design
We aim to create the Incentivized ***“Social Welfare Coin”*** on the neo-one platform which is non-fungible (ERC721). We introduce the community to a new incentivized payment token termed as SWC. It stands for Social Welfare Token. This allows us not to involve fiat currency in the cycle rather circulate and burn a token for its cause. The Token has an upper supply limit of 10 billion and starts at zero supply. The initial distribution is to be facilitated by an ICO. The process is as follows: The Government issues Token based on an allocated Fund. Government then distributes tokens among needy individuals and organizations promoting and offering opportunities for volunteering. The contributors get rewarded for participating in volunteering activities by earning some amount of tokens. The tokens can be later used at any public facility participating in the project like public transportation (e.g. buses, metro, bike/scooter sharing). At the end the token is returned to the Government to be distributed again, and so the cycle continues.

###  Data Stored on BlockChain
We created a GrantInfo data structure which sets up an account with group-belonging, personal fund and message for users to be mapped using their pseudonymous address. We have used GrantInfo to store the metadata about the person in the InterOp (Storage) service. For security concern, we have refrained from adding names or corresponding personal data in the chain. GrantInfo basically stores the message about the account, the group which the account belongs to and the balance of the token the account holds. Users can register themselves using their respective group, and the government can distribute a dynamic amount of funds equally in specific groups. 
